docs/src/tutorials/getting_started.md, before:

# Welcome to BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl


In this tutorial, you will learn about the basic concepts of the `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` library, a complete rewrite of the C++ framework [`BALL`](https://github.com/ball-project/ball) in Julia.

To use `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` in your code, add it to your project

``` julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add("BiochemicalAlgorithms")
```

and use it in your code:

``` julia
using BiochemicalAlgorithms
```

## Representing molecular systems

In BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl, all molecules are stored in so-called `Systems`. While a `System` can be created from scratch and filled programmatically, it is commonly created by reading a molecular file, such as a `PDB`-file:

``` julia
s = load_pdb(ball_data_path("../test/data/2ptc.pdb"))
```

    System{Float32}: 2ptc.pdb
      2241 atoms
         0 bonds
         1 molecules
         2 chains
         0 secondary structures
       439 fragments

You can then run methods on this system, e.g.

``` julia
println("The system $(s.name) contains $(natoms(s)) atoms.")
```

    The system 2ptc.pdb contains 2241 atoms.

### Common preparation steps

The data stored in many molecular file formats is incomplete, or needs to be normalized in certain ways. `PDB`-files, for instance, often omit hydrogen atoms, and don’t usually store bonds that can be inferred otherwise. `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` offers a number of methods that perform preparation steps that are common to most molecular modelling applications, such as normalizing atom- and fragment names, computing bonds, adding missing atoms from a library of templates (such as amino acids), or saturating a molecule with hydrogen atoms. The template information used by these methods is stored in the so-called `FragmentDB`. A common series of operations to prepare a system for further processing is as follows:

``` julia
fdb = FragmentDB()
normalize_names!(s, fdb)
reconstruct_fragments!(s, fdb)
build_bonds!(s, fdb)
```

    ┌ Warning: reconstruct_fragments!(): could not find reference fragment for  CA:462
    └ @ BiochemicalAlgorithms ~/git/ball.jl/src/preprocessing/reconstruct_fragments.jl:177
    [ Info: reconstruct_fragments!(): added 2364 atoms.
    ┌ Warning: build_bonds!(): could not find reference fragment for  CA.
    └ @ BiochemicalAlgorithms ~/git/ball.jl/src/preprocessing/build_bonds.jl:14
    [ Info: build_bonds!(): built 4498 bonds

Commit message:

A new tutorial for the core components including secondary structure (#187)
* tutorials: added small use cases

Signed-off-by: Jenny <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>
Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* working on new tutorial

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* restructuring of tutorials

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* restructuring and additional tutorial

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* removed outdated md files

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* update links

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* removed refs to non-existing docs

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* renaming to old standard

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Thomas Kemmer <thomas@binaryden.de>
Signed-off-by: jeleclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* update diagram

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* added missing section about secondary structure in core tutorial

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* updated uml

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* include section for secondary structure from pdb

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* regenerated md file with commented fail

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

* applied changes from code review

Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>

---------

Signed-off-by: Jenny <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>
Signed-off-by: Jenny Leclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>
Signed-off-by: jeleclaire <leclaire@uni-mainz.de>
Co-authored-by: Thomas Kemmer <thomas@binaryden.de>

docs/src/tutorials/getting_started.md, after:

# Welcome to BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl


In this tutorial, you will learn about the basic concepts of the `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` library, a complete rewrite of the C++ framework [`BALL`](https://github.com/ball-project/ball) in Julia.

To use `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` in your code, add it to your project

``` julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add("BiochemicalAlgorithms")
```

and use it in your code:

``` julia
using BiochemicalAlgorithms
```

## Representing molecular systems

In BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl, all molecules are stored in so-called `Systems`. While a `System` can be created from scratch and filled programmatically, it is commonly created by reading a molecular file, such as a `PDB`-file:

``` julia
s = load_pdb(ball_data_path("../test/data/2ptc.pdb"))
```

    System{Float32}: COMPLEX (PROTEINASE/INHIBITOR)
      2241 atoms
         9 bonds
         1 molecules
         4 chains
        12 secondary structures
       439 fragments

You can then run methods on this system, e.g.

``` julia
println("The system $(s.name) contains $(natoms(s)) atoms.")
```

    The system COMPLEX (PROTEINASE/INHIBITOR) contains 2241 atoms.

### Common preparation steps

The data stored in many molecular file formats is incomplete, or needs to be normalized in certain ways. `PDB`-files, for instance, often omit hydrogen atoms, and don’t usually store bonds that can be inferred otherwise. `BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl` offers a number of methods that perform preparation steps that are common to most molecular modelling applications, such as normalizing atom- and fragment names, computing bonds, adding missing atoms from a library of templates (such as amino acids), or saturating a molecule with hydrogen atoms. The template information used by these methods is stored in the so-called `FragmentDB`. A common series of operations to prepare a system for further processing is as follows:

``` julia
fdb = FragmentDB()
normalize_names!(s, fdb)
reconstruct_fragments!(s, fdb)
build_bonds!(s, fdb)
```

    ┌ Warning: reconstruct_fragments!(): could not find reference fragment for  CA:462
    └ @ BiochemicalAlgorithms ~/local/BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl/src/preprocessing/reconstruct_fragments.jl:177
    [ Info: reconstruct_fragments!(): added 2346 atoms.
    ┌ Warning: build_bonds!(): could not find reference fragment for  CA.
    └ @ BiochemicalAlgorithms ~/local/BiochemicalAlgorithms.jl/src/preprocessing/build_bonds.jl:14
    [ Info: build_bonds!(): built 4471 bonds

## How to go on?

For an in depth view on the components forming the core of BiochemicalAlgorithms, we highly recommend taking a look at the next section [core_components.md](core_components.md) which forms a basis for the remaining tutorials dealing with different topics:
- [iterate](iterate.md): How to iterate and filter over specific entities (atoms, bonds, …)
- [force field ops](force_field_ops.md): How to use a force field and minimize a structure
- [handling molecules](handle_molecules.md): Mixed code snippets for common use cases
- [read and write](read_and_write.md): Read and write different file formats
